# Reconquista_Map


High-quality water is an essential component for human life, economic development, and the maintenance of ecosystems and life within them. Water quality is determined by its physical, chemical, and biological characteristics and results from various natural processes such as erosion of mineral substrates, atmospheric evapotranspiration processes, sedimentation of sludge and salts, natural leaching of organic matter and soil nutrients, and biological processes; as well as various anthropogenic activities (United Nations, 2014). 

Water bodies are the ultimate receptors of many contaminants generated by urban settlements, industrial and agricultural livestock production, affecting the resource's suitability for use. This situation becomes particularly critical in areas of high population and industrial density, which may be associated with the degradation of natural resources and the quality of life of the population inhabiting these areas (Borthagaray et al., 2001). Many urbanizations in the Buenos Aires conurbation, surrounding the city of Buenos Aires, developed excessively and without planning, including the lack of adequate systems for obtaining potable water and for the transportation of wastewater, while industrial development increased (Topalián et al., 1999). 

The presence of these contaminants in water bodies is affected by processes of transportation and transformation. These phenomena allow both the spread of pollution from more contaminated water bodies to those less affected by human activities and dilution by the entry of rivers with less pollutant load, as well as the exchange of pollutants between different matrices: water, air, sediments, soils, among others. These processes can also be modified by climatic conditions and local meteorological phenomena. One way to schematize the dynamics of the environmental system is by developing a conceptual model of it. For this purpose, it was necessary to characterize the contamination site based on existing information. 

The Reconquista River is the second most contaminated watercourse in the country, after the Matanza-Riachuelo. This river originates in the Ing. Roggero dam and flows into the Luján River, a direct tributary of the La Plata River. The connection between the Reconquista and Luján rivers is through 3 branches generated at the Reconquista River's bifurcation near its mouth: the Tigre River, the Reconquista Chico, and an artificial canal, the Canal Aliviador. The basin is divided into upper, middle, and lower regions according to the activities carried out in these areas and the characteristics of the population found in them (Fig. 1.1). This basin spans 18 municipalities in the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area. Nearly three million people inhabit it, and it is severely affected by recurrent floods and increasing pollution. The disorderly urbanization processes in the basin, especially in the middle and lower reaches, have transformed the Reconquista River basin into an urban area, affecting not only the natural ecosystem but also putting the local population at risk, especially those located on the riverbanks and flood-prone areas, which generally correspond to sectors of greater poverty (Nader, 2015; Curutchet et al., 2012; Potocko, 2017).
